

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:

The chief complaint is abdominal pain and diarrhea.

This is a **AGE[in 20s]-year-old female who comes to the United States from Mexico City. 
She has lived here for about two years.  She states that she was in Mexico
City about seven days ago, where she ate a considerable amount of seafood. 
Subsequently, she returned to the United States and on Monday had some mild
abdominal discomfort and one episode of emesis and then on Thursday and
Friday, she began having diarrhea which progressed to be increasingly watery
and abdominal discomfort when she had diarrhea.  She now is having regular
episodes of very watery diarrhea with some mucus that started today.  She also
has episodes of what sound like tenesmus by her description.  She has not had
fever.  Her temperature was 37 degrees at home.  She also notes that she is
two weeks late for her menstrual period.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:

Constitutional:  No fever, chills, weight loss or gain.  

Pulmonary:  No cough or shortness of breath.

Cardiovascular:  No chest pain.  No palpitations.

GI:  She has diarrhea and abdominal discomfort as noted above, but nausea or
vomiting at this time.

The remainder of the systems is negative except as noted above.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:

Negative.

MEDICATIONS:

None.

ALLERGIES:

PENICILLIN.

SOCIAL HISTORY:

She does not smoke.  She occasionally drinks alcohol.


PHYSICAL EXAM:

VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature 35.6, pulse 74, respiratory rate 18, BP 107/33.

GENERAL:  This is a well-developed, well-nourished, Hispanic female in no
acute distress.

HEENT:  Normocephalic and atraumatic.  Pupils are round and reactive to light.

PULMONARY:  The lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally.

CARDIOVASCULAR:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs, rubs, or gallops.

GI:  The abdomen is soft, nontender, and nondistended. 

EXTREMITIES:  Warm and well perfused without clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.

NEUROLOGIC:  The patient is alert and oriented without deficit.

RECTAL:  There is no stool, but is heme negative.

ED COURSE:

The patient was evaluated by myself and Dr. **NAME[M. M. ZZZ], the attending
physician.  Based on her symptoms, we had two concerns, first to make sure
that she was not pregnant given the lateness of her period.  We obtained a
urine hCG and this was negative.  Secondly, we were concerned for a possible
infectious source of her diarrhea.  We, therefore, obtained a sample of stool
to send for white cells and ova/parasites.  The stool smear revealed many
white blood cells.  We were unable to obtain enough of the sample for
ova/parasites but given the stool white blood cells, I feel that this enough
to treat her with Cipro for a suspected traveler's diarrhea.  We, therefore,
started her on Cipro 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. for five days, as well as Pepto-Bismol
for symptomatic relief.  She was given instructions regarding traveler's
diarrhea and she will follow up with her primary care doctor, Dr. **NAME[YYY
XXX], in five-to-seven days.  We sent stool cultures as well.  The patient
was advised to return to the Emergency Department for severe pain, nausea,
vomiting, fever, or any other problems.  At this time, the patient was
discharged home.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS(ES):

TRAVELER's DIARRHEA.



**NAME[BBB M. ZZZ], M.D.
Clinical Instructor
Department of Emergency Medicine


***FOOTER-BLOCK


E_O_R
